In the second phase of each star cycle, the Jedi is offered the chance to align their being with the Force of their chosen crystal.
The Force is strongest when the Force flows freely.
The Force is all.

A damaged crystal is often and easily misaligned.
Crystal will divide into three pieces if misaligned
Split pieces can be no longer Force-aligned.
The Force-failed pieces are highly volatile and therefore illegal to trade. Pieces are therefroe traded amongst the smugglers and black-marketeers as a power source.

An elegant weapon and a sacred shield.

Central alignment is critical.
Ignition process begins when the crystal is aligned.
Crystal stability is crucial.
The crystal begins to glow once correctly aligned.
The crystal is most volatile at this stage.
Enable ignition.

This means nothing to me.

The crystal is the heart of the blade. The heart is the crystal of the Jedi. The Jedi is the crystal of the Force. The Force is the blade of the heart.


The brightest stars have hearts of Kyber. They breathe out life in abundance. They guide safely the lost navigator. They are true exemplars of the Jedi.
The Force flows through Kyber as it does through all living things. The Kyber is attuned to the living Force. Can sense its presence. Can focus its energy.
From ancient times the Jedi have been drawn to Kyber crystals. The first fragments were found on riverbanks and within meteorite craters.
We discovered abundant Kyber in the fissures and caves of distant worlds. Utapau. Lothal. Christophsis. Each is a sacred pilgrimage of the Jedi.
Each crystal is an embodiment of the will of the Force with desires and destinies. With our help some became beauteous sculpture. Others lightsabers.
Kyber crystal is the most vital component of a laser sword or lightsaber. The crystal focuses raw energy and emits a solid beam of plasma.
The lightsaber is more than a tool. It is an extension of the Jedi. Kyber and Jedi become one in the Force through the sacred Rites of Sabercraft.
This knowledge has been passed down through countless generations. From master to apprentice. From the great sabersmiths of Tython down to this day.
C One. The Rite of Discovery.
Let the Force guide you to your crystal. The crystal will call out to you or it may answer your call. Trust in the Force to unite you.
The call is most readily heard during the first and third phase of each star cycle. With patience the Jedi may hear it in any season.
Choose your crystal carefully. Incompatible crystals will feel cold to the touch or repulsive to the mind. They will resist your efforts in the Force.
Size and complexity of the crystal determine the optimal power input and frequency. Larger crystals require greater energy to establish a stable beam.
The early sabersmiths rejected any crystal larger than a wrath tooth or smaller than the seed of a heart berry.
Most commonly the call of the Kyber eminates from the exposed crystal. In rare cases however the ideal crystal lies beneath the surface.
Take care when extractingyour crystal. Treat all Kyber as sacred. If you must remove other than your chosen crystal do so with soberness and reverance.
C Two. The First Rite of Alignment.
When the Jedi and the chosen crystal are first united a change is wrought upon the Kyber. The lattice structure shifts to align with the being of the Jedi.
Pure Kyber is naturally transparent. Only once bonded does the crystal take on a color to reflect the nature of its chosen Jedi.
The color of the attenuated crystal is deeply meaningful to its Jedi. It may reflect their purpose or their relationship to others or to the universe.
Ponder carefully the meaning of your Kyber color but do not seek to divine the heart of your fellow Jedi by their saber alone.
C Three. The Rite of the Forge.
In times past lightsabers were forged for the Jedi by dedicated sabersmiths using crystals obtained from across the galaxy.
After a terrible siege on Tython rendered the Old Forge unusable the knowledge of saber construction was passed to all Jedi lest it be lost forever.
